URL:https://blog.chromium.org/2010/10/v8-benchmark-suite-updated.html
# V8 Benchmark Suite Updated
- **Published**: 2010-10-07T09:12:00.000-07:00
The [V8 benchmark suite](http://v8.googlecode.com/svn/data/benchmarks/current/run.html) contains a number of pure JavaScript benchmarks that capture the areas in which a JavaScript engine has to perform well to support the well-structured, maintainable, and high-performance web applications of tomorrow. These benchmarks have been useful for us when optimizing the V8 JavaScript engine and we have found that making them run faster leads to better performance for many of the web applications we enjoy using every day.

Today we have released [version 6](http://v8.googlecode.com/svn/data/benchmarks/current/revisions.html) of the V8 benchmark suite. The main changes are in the RegExp and Splay components of the benchmark suite. For reference, we describe each of the existing benchmarks in the suite below, along with any changes made in version 6.

**RegExp**: Regular expression benchmark generated by extracting regular expression operations from 50 of the most popular web pages. The regular expressions are exercised a number of times to reflect their popularity on those top 50 web pages. *Changed in version 6: each regular expression is now exercised on a number of different input strings instead of just one.*

**Splay**: Data manipulation benchmark that modifies a large splay tree to exercise the automatic memory management subsystem. The benchmark builds a large splay tree in a setup phase and then measures how fast nodes can be added and removed. *Changed in version 6: no longer converts the same numeric key to string repeatedly and updates the splay tree in a way that increases the pressure on the memory management subsystem.*

**Richards**: Operating system kernel simulation benchmark originally written in BCPL by Martin Richards. The Richards benchmark effectively measures how fast the JavaScript engine is at accessing object properties, calling functions, and dealing with polymorphism. It is a standard benchmark that has been successfully used to measure the performance of many modern programming language implementations.

**DeltaBlue**: One-way constraint solver, originally written in Smalltalk by John Maloney and Mario Wolczko. The DeltaBlue benchmark is written in an object-oriented style with a multi-level class hierarchy. As such it measures how fast the JavaScript engine is at running well-structured applications with many objects and small functions. *Changed in version 6: fixed a couple of typos that do not have any impact on the behavior of the benchmark.*

**Crypto**: Encryption and decryption benchmark based on code by Tom Wu. The benchmark encrypts an input string, decrypts the result and verifies that encryption followed by decryption yields the original input. The encryption/decryption algorithm is RSA and the benchmark measures the performance of arithmetic operations on integers and array access.

**RayTrace**: Ray tracer benchmark based on code by Adam Burmister. The benchmark measures floating-point computations where the object structure is constructed using the Prototype JavaScript library. *Changed in version 6: removed dead code that has no impact on the behavior of the benchmark.*

**EarleyBoyer**: Classic Scheme benchmarks, translated to JavaScript by Florian Loitsch's Scheme2Js compiler. The benchmarks exercise important areas of the JavaScript engine such as object allocation, data structure manipulation, and garbage collection. The translated nature of the benchmarks make them appear foreign, but the runtime characteristics of the benchmarks are highly representative of many real world web applications.

Curious to know how your browser performs? [Give it a spin](http://v8.googlecode.com/svn/data/benchmarks/current/run.html) on the new version of the V8 benchmark suite.

Posted by Kasper Lund, Software Engineer