URL:https://blog.chromium.org/2009/06/web-developers-keeping-up-with-google.html
# Web Developers: Keeping Up With Google Chrome
- **Published**: 2009-06-03T16:57:00.000-07:00
Google Chrome is moving fast. Version 2.0 was stabilized just six months after 1.0, and auto-updates have ensured that nearly all users are using the newest version of the browser within days of a release. As a web developer, it can be a bit daunting that the browser version changes so fast: What if the new version breaks something? How can I be prepared for changes that will affect my sites?

To answer these questions, it's helpful to know how Google Chrome releases are made, the relationship between "dev," "beta," and "stable" update channels, and how you can test new versions. In this post, we'll be expanding on [Mark Larson's earlier explanation of the update channel system](http://blog.chromium.org/2009/01/google-chrome-release-channels.html).

* **Stable channel. As Mark outlines, the Stable channel is, well, stable. As a web developer, that means that as long as the major version — the "2" in "version 2.0.181.1" — doesn't change, you can count on Stable channel builds to use the same versions of WebKit (CSS, layout, etc.), V8 (JavaScript), and other components that might affect how a page loads or renders. Stable updates between major version releases are generally focused on addressing security issues, fixing egregious bugs, and improving stability. The big developer-facing bits of the browser won't change on the Stable channel until the next major version is released, and you can always preview upcoming changes using the Beta channel.**
* **Beta channel.** As a web developer, being on the Beta channel will ensure that you can test your sites with the next version of Google Chrome's rendering behavior before it's sent to the Stable channel and into the hands of most users. Whenever a major version lands in the Beta channel, the versions of WebKit, V8, networking, and the other systems that affect how web pages load and render generally become fixed. These versions may change during the major version's beta cycle, but changes are usually incremental fixes to help stabilize a feature rather than changes in behavior. New versions of WebKit may be introduced during a beta period, but those versions are always accompanied by a new build number (e.g. 2.0.169.xx vs. 2.0.172.xx) and are unlikely to differ drastically. As this major version moves closer to a stable release, these kinds of changes become more and more infrequent. Since Google Chrome development moves so quickly, you should stay on the Beta channel to catch compatibility issues ahead of time.
* **Dev channel.** The Dev channel is where the sausage gets made. Dev releases happen frequently, and they track what's happening upstream in WebKit, V8, and other relevant systems very closely. This means that changes that might affect rendering, performance, and layout are likely to occur on the Dev channel on a regular basis. We don't recommend that you install the Dev channel if you're looking to maintain site compatibility, since tracking breaking changes as they happen can be a major headache. You should be able to spot any problems early enough via the Beta channel.

Users are on the Stable channel by default. To get onto the Beta or Dev channel, follow [these instructions](http://dev.chromium.org/getting-involved/dev-channel). Once you change to a less stable channel, e.g. from Stable to Dev, there isn't a supported "downgrade" path. If you change from the less stable channel back to a more stable one, Google Chrome will simply stop updating until your new channel "catches up" with the installed build. To force an immediate downgrade, uninstall and reinstall using an appropriate installer. This may occasionally cause errors when your more stable (older) version tries to read the newer user data left over from the previous installation.

Once you have a copy of Google Chrome, you can test your site's compatibility. [Google Doctype](http://code.google.com/p/doctype/wiki/Welcome) has a helpful [FAQ on best practices for Google Chrome compatibility](http://code.google.com/p/doctype/wiki/ArticleGoogleChromeCompatFAQ). In short, prefer object detection over userAgent string parsing; don't rely on pixel-accurate font and element sizes; declare your pages' encodings correctly; double check <object> and <embed> parameters; check for illegal markup; and avoid browser-specific CSS.

The Chromium and WebKit teams work hard to ensure compatibility with websites. If after reading the above you discover browser problems, please don't hesitate to file a bug. If a particular problem with your site occurs in both Google Chrome and a corresponding version of Safari, it may be due to a WebKit issue, which you can file in the [WebKit bug tracker](https://bugs.webkit.org/). If the problem only happens in Google Chrome, log an issue in the [Chromium bug tracker](http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/).

Posted by Alex Russell, Software Engineer